So we want to sign the user up with email and password and for this, we need to send a post request as
you can see here to this API endpoint,
this API key here at the end can be taken from your firebase project,
I will show you where to find it and we need to attach a body payload where we pass the e-mail, the password
and then the return secure token property which should be a boolean which we simply should
set to true to get back a token immediately, that token I was referring to on the slides.
So since we want to send such a request, we probably should create some actions or an action we can
use for that, for authentication.
We got our auth action file and we got the try auth
but right now all we do in here is we return this javascript object and we don't use that in our reducer
or anything like that,
there we have no place where we would listen to try auth,
so this essentially does nothing useful for us right now. This auth action is or can be used in our auth
screen here, there when we login, we call on login and pass auth data and that is in the end dispatching
this try auth method but again this try auth method then in turn would indeed send this action but the action
itself is never used.
The try auth part still might be useful or we can build up on that, we can build up on that to create
a user or log the user in,
so let's do just that. I'll create a new function here, export const which I'll name authSignUp, the name
is up to you, there I expect to get the auth data and in here in this function, I will not immediately return
an action but return dispatch and then a function,
so I will use this redux thunk middleware to run async code, run a side effect and in here, I now want
to reach out to get http endpoint I just showed you on the official documentation.
So here I will use the fetch API and then we can grab this endpoint, this url here from the firebase
docs and enter it as a url
we want to send a request to.
Now we need to replace this API key part with the API key of our firebase project,
we can find that in the firebase console if we click on authentication on web set up here, on the top
right corner. There you don't need to configure or copy all of that,
you would need that if you use
the
SDK,
we're not doing that though,
you can copy that API key here though,
so the string you see here next to API key. Copy that
and with that, if you go back you can paste that key in here, just like that.
Now we also need a second argument in the fetch request here because we need to set the method to post
because we should send a post request and we need to attach a body, that body needs to be stringified
and then it should be a javascript object that has an e-mail, password and the return secure
token property,
so e-mail, password and return secure token.
Now return secure token can immediately be set to true,
I want to get the token, the email and password
I will assume that I get this from auth data
and if we have a look at our auth screen where we in the end call on login,
here we pass this auth data object that has an e-mail and password field. So we can use that here, we
can assign e-mail to auth data e-mail therefore and we can assign password to auth data password and
that should be passing all the data to the backend
we need to successfully create a new user.
Now we should of course also catch any errors and handle them in whichever way you want, here
I will log them to the console and also alert authentication failed,
please try again
but I'll also of course add a then block where I want to handle the success case where I first of all extract
the json data we get back
and then we have this parsed response which we could use and I will simply log that to the console for
now, we will later use that differently though.
So with that we get the authSignUp action,
now the idea is to use that from inside try auth here,
so there I will also return a function which gets dispatched so I will also take advantage of redux
thunk here.
I won't send the fetch request here though
but I will dispatch auth
sign up and pass on the auth data here.
So this is basically a function which will then trigger a different action
and it becomes important because I will soon update this to also handle login actions so that this
kind of serves as a splitter which then dispatches some other action,
in this case right now only the sign up action though,
so now we should have everything in place to send a sign up request.
Now right now this is always sent no matter in which mode our form is, we will change this soon.
Now with that, all finished, we can test it
but there's one thing I want to do or I have to do, on the fetch request method and body,
that was enough when targeting the firebase database or when targeting our own function, our cloud
function, here for this API endpoint,
I also need to set some headers, simply pass a javascript object here,
one header to be precise, the content type which has to be just application.json
otherwise it will fail.
So with that let's try it, I'll reload my iOS app, that is where the debugger is also connected to
and then let's enter some credentials here and hit submit and we will be redirected to the tabs page
but we get this log down there which actually comes from firebase which contains some interesting data
amongst that the emails we used
and this token which will become important.
We also got another token,
I'll talk about this later but for now, let's focus on this token here, we also get back the ID of
the user which was automatically generated by firebase.
Now on firebase, if you refresh this sign in users page, you see the e-mail address you used
and this user ID too.
So that indeed did work
and with that, we have a way of creating a new user, we get back this token which will soon become important
but first of all there are a couple of other things I want to do.
I don't directly want to load the next page because if this fails, I don't want to do that
and additionally what you'll notice, if I use exactly the same email address,
so make sure it's the same used before and I submit again,
obviously the tabs are loaded,
that's what I want to fix, that we check this but you also see that I get an error now. In this error object,
we have code 400 email exists and still this is not coming from our catch block,
it's coming from line 28 so it's coming from the normal then block because the 400 error code does actually
not trigger this catch here.
So we should make sure that here we also handle cases where we got error responses and we also should
make sure that we don't load the tabs page if we are not logged in yet,
additionally even though it is super fast, firebase is super fast, it would be nice to see some activity
indicator here whilst we are waiting for the response.
These are all things I want to tackle in the next lecture.